All right now, we need to display the number
of items that are in the cart.
And then when that value updates, I want to do some sort
of animation because it'll show the user
that this is where they can click their card
if they want to be able to see it.
So we'll go and make a new component called a cart count.
So go to components folder.
Okay. A new file called capital C cart, capital C
count dot JS.
And in there we'll have an export default function,
cart count, that takes in one prop
which is the number of items in the cart.
And, from that
we will return a dot capital D O T tag
with the count in it.
Then, we'll make that dot tag.
So a const dot is equal to styled dot div
and we need to import styled.
Good.
And inside of here,
it will say background,
so, var dash dash red,
color is white.
Let's just stop there
for a second and actually get it working.
So, we need to implement this into our nav.
So, open up your nav,
and go down to where we are inside of the, "My Cart."
And we'll just give ourselves a cart count
component, auto import that,
and pass the count as two.
Okay, good.
Let's go back and keep styling it.
Actually, let's hook it up.
Let's hook it up to the, yeah,
we have the cart here.
Basically, we can just say a user dot cart dot reduce,
and we want to take the tally and the cart item
and return the tally plus the cart item dot quantity.
And then we also want to start with zero.
Good, 24.
And now, if we add an item to our cart
that automatically updates to 25
because there's 25 items in the cart.
Beautiful. Okay.
So, that's real data being piped in.
Now, let's go back to doing some CSS here.
We'll say the Brad border radius is 50%.
Padding is 0, 0.5 REM,
line height is two REM,
the min width three REM, margin left one REM.
Okay.
It's looking a little squished.
Oh, padding.
I bet I put zero.
It should just be 0.5 REM all around.
There we go.
And then, one little thing I like to do is
watch what happens when I add an item to this cart.
You see how it very slightly moves.
It may, because some, like the one, is
if I add an item, the two is much wider.
So, it makes the circle go just a little bit wider,
and that can be an issue
if you're counting things up and down.
I often have that on timers on my website
if I'm having a sale on a courses.
So, a way you can get around that
is, you say, font feature settings is T num.
That's you mean tabular numb,
and font, variant numeric is tabular numb.
So these are just two different browser support.
I'm not sure which one is the most recent or spec,
but just always put them both in,
and you might not even be able to see it here,
but watch when I take it off.
Okay. Let's bump the sucker right up.
Bump, bump, bump, bump, bump.
How big can we go?
There we go.
Watch, when I take this off, watch the width of the two,
see how it gets a little bit wider?
And, as I add items, it gives you just a little bit
of a shift and that's kind of annoying.
So that will, regardless, that makes all numbers
the exact same width.
That's what, at the end of the day, I'm trying to say.
Okay, so we have the My Cart item being updated.
Next, what I want to do is show you how to do some very
basic animation in here,
so that when it updates
we can animate it.
And that is with using a package called
React Transition Group.
So, we'll go in here,
and we will wrap this in a transition group
Tag.
So put the dot inside of there,
and we've got to import transition group.
Okay,
and then we also need a CSS transition
tag,
and then we'll put the dot inside of that.
Now the CSS transition tag takes a number of props.
One is called "unmount on exit,"
and the next one is called "class name."
That's count.
There's also class names.
And I'll show you what that is in just a second.
That has also count.
Then we have key,
and this will tell it when to update itself.
And the key will be based on the count.
That's the thing that changes.
And then the timeout is going to be curly brackets
and object enter, will take 400 milliseconds,
and exit will take 400 milliseconds.
So, now, watch what happens.
I'm gonna open my dev tools here
and watch what happens down here.
When I add an item, adding to cart, boom.
Now there was two of them.
Let's change that from 400 to five thousand.
So, what's going to happen is we're going to go
from 35 all the way up to 36.
So, what's going to happen is it's going to duplicate it.
It's going to show us the new component,
which is 36, as well as the old one.
And then it will put classes on them,
which allow us to animate them out and in
which is really cool.
So watch, I'm going to add an item here.
Boom. You see, look at this,
36 is count interactive and count exit active.
And then, after five seconds
they remove those classes and say, this one is done.
So just by adding and removing those classes
we'll be able to hook onto them
with CSS and do some kind of neat CSS animation.
So, we're going to go up here
and we'll say const animation styles is equal to,
a style dot span,
And in here we'll say position relative.
And, we'll say, dot count,
enter, transform.
Actually, let's just do this,
background green, dot count,
enter active background
Yellow, dot count, exit, background, blue
And dot count, exit active, background pink.
Now watch, when I add an item here,
oh, we don't get them yet,
'cause we haven't used this animation styles yet.
We've got to wrap our entire component
in these animation styles.
Just so that they'll be applied.
And now when I add a new item, so look at that,
yellow, pink, and after a split second: boom,
they go back to where they were.
So, we're obviously not going to change the color of them,
but we are going to change the value of where they are.
So first, we're just going to select them all,
which is dot count.
That's where the class name comes in handy.
The class names is the count dash.
That's how we do that one.
I'll say display, block, position relative, transition.
We want to transition on the transform property
over 0.4 seconds.
It's really important that you line up this value right here
with the value that is here.
So, we'll change that back to 400 milliseconds
in just a sec, and then back face, visibility,
is going to be hidden, and this is because
we can flip them, if you want.
You can flip them.
And as they flip out, you don't want to show the back
of them.
Maybe as they want to flip out into nothing
Then, count enter is going to be transformed
Scale four,
and rotate.
We want to rotate it half a turn, or rotate X.
And if you want to rotate something half,
you can do 180 degrees.
Or, I found out recently, you can just use your 0.5 turn.
Whereas one turn will be a full trip.
A half a turn is half a turn.
I really like using turn units.
Then, when it is active, we will say rotate
X, zero.
And, the count exit, we have to say top zero,
Position absolute because we want it to go
on top of the existing one
and transform rotate X zero.
So, that's the initial state.
And then the opposite
of the initial state is the active state,
where we will do the exact same thing as this.
So now, watch this, add to cart.
Boom, boom, boom.
So, we can turn these back down to 400.
And then as you add an item
it gives us that nice little, whoo.
You can even change the color of it,
as it is entering background green.
And then that will turn it green as it is animating in.
So, you can just like, anytime you get like tripped
up over what these classes are, just throw a color
or a border and crank up the time-outs,
just make sure that you do match the timeout right here.
And then you'll be able to see what is happening
in slow motion.
So, I really liked that.
That's a really slick way to do some basic animations.
That's not for more involved animations.
But, at a very basic level,
you can duplicate your components and apply animation styles
to the one that is leaving,
as well as animation styles to the one that is entering.
And the reason why we have double
for each is that you have to transform from something
to something else, you can't just transform to scale
four and rotate X.
So, what happens is it gives it a class
of count enter and then a millisecond later
it gives it a class, a class of count interactive.
You can't even see the difference
in the dev tools because it's so fast.
But basically, that allows us to have a transform
from A to B.
And because we are transitioning between them,
it'll look like an animation, same thing with this
you start here, and you transfer to here,
and I take away that background as well.
So, that is the animation part of our cart.
If I do have one more challenge to you,
is that when somebody, adds an item to a cart,
try to also automatically open the cart using
that context method that we previously used.